New module: CSS pseudo-elements (#28153)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/css_pseudo-elements/index.md

---
title: CSS pseudo-elements
slug: Web/CSS/CSS_pseudo-elements
page-type: css-module
spec-urls: https://drafts.csswg.org/css-pseudo/
---

{{CSSRef}}

> The **CSS pseudo-element** module defines pseudo-elements, abstract elements not directly present in the document tree that represent portions of the CSS render tree that can be selected and styled. Pseudo-elements are used to create abstractions about the document tree beyond those provided by the document tree.
> 
> Pseudo-elements, prefixed with a double colon (`::`), can be added to selectors, including the implied [universal selector](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Universal_selectors), to target and style these faux elements.
> 
> Pseudo-elements enable targeting entities not included in HTML and sections of content not otherwise targetable without having to add extra markup. The {{CSSXref("::selection")}} pseudo-element matches the content currently highlighted by the user, automatically updating what is matched as the user interacts with the content and changes the current selection. The {{CSSXref("::first-line")}} pseudo-element targets the first line of an element, updating automatically if the character count of the first line changes, without having to query the element's line length. The {{CSSXref("::placeholder")}} pseudo-element can be used to select the placeholder of an {{HTMLelement("input")}} element; an abstract element that exists, but is not a distinct node in the document tree.

Reviewer: - Split the first sentence because it had become very long
- Replaced "can be added" with "You add" because that's the only way to use them (also changes the voice to active)
- Added a quick example of pseudo-elements + selectors
- Removed "including the implied [universal selector](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Universal_selectors)" because it does not seem necessary to emphasize this detail in the intro. But please undo if you think differently.
- I wish we could combine the first and second paras but the first para is already too long, unless you can trim out any info.
- Replaced "automatically updating" with "allowing you to style" - I am guessing that's the intention
- Moved the last example as first because it explains the concept of abstract element.

```suggestion
The **CSS pseudo-element** module defines abstract elements that are not directly present in the document tree. These abstract elements, called pseudo-elements, represent portions of the CSS render tree that can be selected and styled. Pseudo-elements are used to create abstractions about the document tree beyond those provided by the document tree.

Pseudo-elements are prefixed with a double colon (`::`). You add pseudo-elements to selectors (as in `p::first-line`) to target and style these faux elements.

Pseudo-elements enable targeting entities not included in HTML and sections of content that cannot be targeted otherwise without having to add extra markup. Consider the placeholder of an {{HTMLelement("input")}} element. This is an abstract element and not a distinct node in the document tree. You can select this placeholder by using the {{CSSXref("::placeholder")}} pseudo-element. As another example, the {{CSSXref("::selection")}} pseudo-element matches the content currently highlighted by a user, allowing you to style what is matched as the user interacts with the content and changes the selection. Similarly, the {{CSSXref("::first-line")}} pseudo-element targets the first line of an element, updating automatically if the character count of the first line changes, without having to query the element's line length. 
```
